feat(bil): cost manager (#2973)
scaleway/docs-content: console/billing/api-cli/retrieve-monthly-consumption.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Retrieving your monthly consumption via the Scaleway API
  description: This page explains how to retrieve your monthly consumption via the Scaleway API
content:
  h1: Retrieving your monthly consumption via the Scaleway API
  paragraph: This page explains how to retrieve your monthly consumption via the Scaleway API
tags: billing consumption report api export
dates:
  validation: 2024-03-26
  posted: 2024-03-26
categories:
  - billing
---

> Follow the procedure below to download your monthly consumption using the Scaleway [Billing API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/billing/#path-consumption-get-monthly-consumption) and `curl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the procedure below to download your monthly consumption using the Scaleway [Billing API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/billing/#path-consumption-get-monthly-consumption).
```

Reviewer: Removed "and `curl`" because there is no procedure that shows how to download it in the doc + it's a requirement to have downloaded it before starting.

Author: I wrote "using the Scaleway API and curl" bc you can use the apis with different tools. in this tuto we use curl. I'll keep in the text

Reviewer: Ah sorry I thought "and curl" went with "download"

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account and logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/organization)

> - Created an [API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/) and that the API key has sufficient [IAM permissions](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/) to perform the actions described on this page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Created an [API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/) with sufficient [IAM permissions](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/) to perform the actions described on this page
```

> - Ccreated an [API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/) and that the API key has sufficient [IAM permissions](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/) to perform the actions described on this page

Reviewer 2: Created instead of Ccreated

> - Ccreated an [API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/) and that the API key has sufficient [IAM permissions](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/) to perform the actions described on this page

Author: ```suggestion
- Created an [API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/) and that the API key has sufficient [IAM permissions](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/) to perform the actions described on this page
```

- [Installed `curl`](https://curl.se/download.html)

> - Configure your environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configured your environment variables.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Exporting your environment variables

```

   <Message type="note">
   This is an optional step that aims at simplifying your usage of the API.
   </Message>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Open a terminal and run the following command to export your API secret key and your Organization ID.

```

   ```bash
   export SCW_SECRET_KEY="<API secret key>"
   export SCW_ORGANIZATION_ID="<Scaleway Organization ID>"
   ```

## Consumption of the current month

> Run the following command to obtain your consumption over the current month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Run the following command to obtain your consumption over the current month.
```
